UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 022207Z APR 20 MID110000547729U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 097/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/COMMON ACCESS CARD ISSUANCE POLICY UPDATE FOR COVID-19//

REF/A/VID/DCMO VIRTUAL TOWN HALL/DCMO/16MAR20//

REF/B/DOC/DODM 1000.13 VOL 1/OSD P&R/14DEC17//

NARR/REF A IS THE BROADCAST OF THE DOD CHIEF MANAGEMENT OFFICER TOWN HALL ON 
COVID-19.  REF B IS OUSD P&R POLICY FOR THE ELIGIBILITY AND ISSUANCE OF A CAC 
TO DOD PERSONNEL.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces and provides temporary guidance for Navy 
personnel who require Common Access Card Identification
(CAC)/(ID) services during the COVID-19 emergency in accordance with 
reference (a).
    a.  To maximize force health protection and ensure continuity of 
operations, all Navy Real-Time Automated Personnel Identification System 
(RAPIDS) sites will only accept customers who have made CAC online 
appointments.  Priority support will be provided to those with time sensitive 
situations (e.g. active-duty Service Members whose CAC has been lost/stolen 
or is expiring within the next 60 days, ID card issuance for newly retired 
members, dependents with cards expiring within the next 30 days and CAC PIN 
resets).  If unable to schedule an appointment, customers will be serviced 
via a controlled walk-in process for CAC PIN resets only.  Navy RAPIDS sites 
shall screen customers before entry in line with the Center for Disease 
Control and Navy guidance.  All customers are expected to complete a self-
screening questionnaire before accessing the RAPIDS facility.  The screening 
questionnaire will be prominently posted at the entrance to each facility.  
Those currently sick or who have been in close personal contact with someone 
diagnosed with COVID-19, or those who have recently traveled (internationally 
or domestically outside their local area) will be denied entry.
    b.  To check the operating status of a RAPIDS site and schedule an 
appointment, go to the RAPIDS Appointment Scheduler at https://rapids-
appointments.dmdc.osd.mil.  Additional site specific information will be 
provided for each location as well as the status of alternate locations.
    c.  Personnel must provide proof of identity documentation and have a 
valid verified DEERS record in accordance with reference (b).
    d.  Personnel issued a new CAC must logon to a government furnished 
workstation via a wired network in order to cache their new Public Key 
Infrastructure (PKI) credentials.  Network access to support telework through 
the workstation will not be available until this action is completed.  
Impacted personnel should follow local guidance for locations to connect to 
the network for required log in action.

2.  If you or a family member have a dependent or retiree ID card please be 
aware that your benefits (medical, dental, etc.) will remain in effect as 
long as your military sponsor is entitled to benefits.  For example, the 
family of a married E-6 with an end of active obligated service date of 
January 2022 is authorized Department of Defense (DoD) benefits until that 
date, regardless of the status of their ID card(s).

3.  In preparation for a situation in which users are unable to report to a 
RAPIDS site for CAC reissuance, DoD is developing an online technical 
solution that will allow users with soon-to-expire PKI certificates to load 
new PKI certificates that will be valid for up to 1 year.  The technical 
solution will not be available to personnel with expired PKI certificates.  
Expect additional information about this capability and other ID card policy 
updates to be promulgated soon.

4.  Primary points of contact are:
    a.  General ID card services inquires:  MyNavy Career Center, 1-
833-330-6622 or via e-mail at askmncc(at)navy.mil.
    b.  CAC certificate issues:
        (1) CAPT Susan BryerJoyner, OPNAV (N2N6G5), 571-256-8422 or via email 
at susan.bryerjoyner1(at)navy.mil
        (2) Mr. Mike Johnson, OPNAV (N2N6G5), email at 
william.m.johnson1(at)navy.mil
    c.  DEERS/RAPIDS issues:
        (1) Tracy Wilder, Navy Personnel Command, Pay and Personnel Support 
Branch (PERS-2), 901-874-3425 or via e-mail at tracy.wilder(at)navy.mil.
        (2) Lawanda Bing, Navy Personnel Command (PERS-2),
901-874-3467 or via email at lawanda.bing(at)navy.mil

5.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

